So believe it or
not, at long last,
we're done with our sequential
SearchStream example.
The search with
sequential streams class.
And what we're
going to do now here
to the end of this
week's lessons
are evaluate the pros and cons.
So you see there's
some good things,
there's some bad things.
Mostly good things, of course.
So there is a number of benefits
to using sequential streams
in contrast to using the
object oriented version we
talked about before.
In particular, we
see that streams
use these internal
iterations rather than
external iterators that are
used by the collections.
So our object oriented
implementation
had external iteration using
things like for-each loops,
and so on.
This approach is more concise.
It also shields
programmers and programs
from all the implementation
details of how
things work under the hood.
That's all hidden in
the implementation.
One of the nice things is
that everything's declarative.
You basically say what
you want to have done.
You don't have to
disclose how you do it.
Those could be left
to the behaviors,
and so on, and the
streams framework itself.
You'll also notice that
there's no explicit control
constructs or any memory
allocations in this pipeline.
It's all hidden for you
internally inside the bowels
of this streams framework
and the various behaviors
we're calling here.
A nice way to look at
this is that by using
streams and declarative
programming and the functional
features and so on
and so forth, we
can end up focusing on what
we want the operations to do
rather than on how they do it,
so it's the what versus the
how again.
And if you go back and
look at the object oriented
implementation,
you'll see there's
a lot more how that's
creeping in to the code, which
distracts from the essence
of what we're actually doing.
The actual computations
that we want to provide.
Another nice thing to
note is all the behaviors
that we're using here.
Things like search for
phrase in search results
is empty and then the gate
OR or the NOT operation.
All those things have no side
effects, so as a consequence,
it's very easy to
optimize the behavior.
We can turn this into a
parallel stream very easily.
It's also very simple to
reason about the behavior.
You don't have to go and
look inside those methods
and go, hmm, what
state do they affect
that might be modified such
that the next call will
have some different output?
Comes a lot easier to reason
about what your program is
trying to do, which is always
a win, especially if you end up
inheriting someone else's
code that you didn't write
and you have to try to figure
out what the heck it did.
Or is as often happens to
me, you wrote code 5, 10, 20,
30 years ago, and
now you go back
and you go, hmm, what
does that code do?
I can't remember.
Well, this helps make
things a lot cleaner.
But of course, as I
always like to say,
it's not all unicorns
and rainbows.
So let's talk about some of
the down sides of the search
with sequential streams class.
Most obviously, the
biggest downside of this
is that a sequential
implementation simply
can't take advantage of
multicore processors.
There's just nothing we
can do to speed it up,
other than by more memory
or something like that.
So there's one and only
one thing going on.
And as you can see, even
on my quad core hyper
threaded powerful laptop
with 32 gigs of RAM,
and so on and so
forth, what the heck.
It still doesn't get
where we need to be.
Parallel streams can often
provide significant performance
boost, and if you take a look
at those results shown here
on the slide, which we'll
cover in more detail later,
you'll see that the
parallel versions are way,
way faster than the
sequential version.
Way faster, and in many
cases, either a linear speed
up in the number of cores or
actually a super linear speed
up because they're threaded
course, so that's really great.
Another drawback here is this
particular example only used
a handful of
aggregate operations.
We talked about map
and filter and collect
and flat map and grouping by
and a couple other things,
but it wasn't showing
you every possible
feature every possible
operation defined in the stream
interface.
However-- this is important--
everything we
covered here is also
useful out of the box
for parallel streams
and you'll see when
we go to convert
from the sequential streams
to one of the parallel streams
versions, it's just
drop dead easy.
There are many, many other
aggregate operations that
are part of the stream API.
There's scores of them.
Sometimes people
ask me, how do you
tell when you look
at the streams API
which ones are the
intermediate operations
and which ones are the
terminal operations,
or which ones are the factory
methods, for that matter,
and it's actually
quite easy to tell.
The intermediate operations take
a stream and return a stream
or call it in the context of a
stream, they return a stream.
The terminal
operations are called
in the context of a stream
and don't return a stream,
and the [? factory ?]
methods will just
go ahead and create something.
We have other programs will
cover later, especially
in the context of parallel
streams and completable futures
that will demonstrate
more aggregate operations,
and so the really cool example
we'll see in upcoming weeks
when we talk about
parallel streams
is something we call the Java
parallel image stream gang
example.
And this is just a tour
de force of cool features
to illustrate how to download
images from remote sites,
transform or filter them, do
image processing operations,
store them in the file system,
and then ultimately display
them.
You can display them
through an Android app
or through some other means,
but it's a much cooler example
and really demonstrates
all the various mechanisms
that we've talked about so
far, which is really fun.